Update README.md (#401)
aggie-coding-club/Rev-Registration: README.md

![project-demo](assets/project-demo.gif)

> Note: We are not currently accepting contributors at this time

> 

Reviewer: Could you put this above the project demo gif on line 6?

Follow these steps to start a local Django server using a PostgreSQL database:

0) For Windows, use powershell instead of command prompt.
    - Some commands don't always work on command prompt.
1) If you don’t have it already, download Python from [here](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
2) Clone the current project: `git clone https://github.com/aggie-coding-club/Rev-Registration.git`
    - This will clone the project into the current directory
3) To install the packages, you first need to make a virtual environment for Python, which will help us ensure that our libraries & Python versions are unified. You can do so by running:

>     - It is recommended to put the virtual environment in the root directory: `./Rev-Registration`

Reviewer 2: I'd move this as a bullet point under the `python3 -m venv env` or in the instructions for the step itself since this isn't actually a command you run, just a pointer

Author: Changed the wording/levels a bit

        - You'll also see a folder(`Scripts/` on Windows & `bin/` on Unix systems) that contains the scripts that you need to start the virtual environment.
        - Depending on your Python version, you may have to replace the `python3` in all commands with either `python` or `py`. (aliases)
            - Error: `The term 'python3' is not recognized as the name of a cmdlet, function, script file, or operable program.`
    - Next, for Unix systems run: `source env/bin/activate`
    - And for Windows, in Powershell run: `./env/Scripts/activate`
        - If you get a permissions error that says: `execution of scripts is disabled on this system`, then open another PowerShell as Administrator and run `Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned`.
            - Alternatively, you can just run the original script as Administrator.
    - You will need to do `source env/bin/activate` or `./env/Scripts/activate` anytime you want to interact with the server(i.e. to run it with `python manage.py runserver`)
4) Now, run `pip install -r autoscheduler/requirements.txt` to install the necessary packages for the project.

> 5) Set up a PostgresQL server by following one of these guides, and make sure you set the name of the database when prompted to `dbautoscheduler`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5) Set up a PostgresQL server by following one of these guides, and make sure you set the name of the database to `dbautoscheduler` when prompted:
```
The current wording confused me at first, hopefully this is more clear

Password: (not necessary)
```

7) Ensure the database `dbautoscheduler` has been created:
Using psql: Type `\l` in the psql prompt and see if `dbautoscheduler` is in the list.
Using pgAdmin: Click the name of the server you created, and see if `dbautoscheduler` is in the tree menu.

> 8) Navigate the the frontend directory: `./autoscheduler/frontend/src/` and run `npm install`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
8) Navigate to the frontend directory: `./autoscheduler/frontend/src/` and run `npm install`
```

Author: should be fixed

## Running

Before running any commands, if you're not running in the virtual environment(you should see `(env)` somewhere in your current terminal line), run `source env/bin/activate` or `./env/Scripts/activate`.

**Server:**
- You will have to make and apply migrations before running the server (and whenever our models are changed). To generate the files that django uses to apply migrations, run `./manage.py makemigrations`, and to then apply these to the database, run `./manage.py migrate`.
    - `manage.py` can be found in the `./autoscheduler/` directory.

- After migrating, you can run the server with `./manage.py runserver`. When running for the first time, you will have to configure `autoscheduler/autoscheduler/config/postgres-info.json` with your postgres username and password. This file will be automatically created if you run `./manage.py runserver`.

- If `./manage.py` isn't working, try to use `python manage.py ...` or `python3 manage.py ...` or `py manage.py ...` in place of it.
    - See python aliases above

- The first time you run the server, you will need to scrape the course info from TAMU

>     - `python manage.py scrape_depts`

Reviewer 3: Don't you need to specify a term for these commands to work?

Reviewer 2: No, it defaults to scraping all terms

Author: Should I add that you can add a term?

Reviewer 3: No, what you have is fine, I'm just dumb

    - `python manage.py scrape_courses`
    - `python manage.py scrape_grades`

**Frontend:**
- Navigate to the frontend source directory: `cd ./autoscheduler/frontend/src` and run `npm run dev`
    - This sets up a watch for file changes and compiles them
    - ctrl-c to quit

**`localhost:8000`**
- Open in web browser after doing the above steps.

**Testing:**

- The frontend has automated test suites which can be ran with:
    - `cd ./autoscheduler/frontend/src`
    - `npm run test`

>         - Can put filename after to test only one file.

Reviewer 3: Does this actually work? I usually end up running `npx jest <filename>` because I could never get `npm run test <filename>` to work for me

Author: It works on my computer, do you normally run ``npx jest <filename>`` in the frontend/src directory? I'll add that

Password: (not necessary)
```

7) Ensure the database `dbautoscheduler` has been created:
Using psql: Type `\l` in the psql prompt and see if `dbautoscheduler` is in the list.
Using pgAdmin: Click the name of the server you created, and see if `dbautoscheduler` is in the tree menu.

8) Navigate to the frontend directory: `./autoscheduler/frontend/src/` and run `npm install` to install our frontend dependencies
    
9) Before making code changes, please go to the Github project [wiki](https://github.com/aggie-coding-club/Rev-Registration/wiki) and follow the Project Setup and Install section.

## Running

Before running any commands, if you're not running in the virtual environment(you should see `(env)` somewhere in your current terminal line), run `source env/bin/activate` or `./env/Scripts/activate`.

### Backend:

> - You will have to make and apply migrations before running the server (and whenever our models are changed). To generate the files that django uses to apply migrations, run `python3 ./manage.py makemigrations`, and to then apply these to the database, run `python3 ./manage.py migrate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You will have to make and apply migrations before running the server (and whenever our models are changed). To apply migrations to your database, run `python3 ./manage.py migrate`.
```

Author: We don't want to note makemigrations?

    - `manage.py` can be found in the `./autoscheduler/` directory.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You'll also need to make a `.env` file in `autoscheduler/autoscheduler/settings/` which contains our client ID and secret for Google OAuth. As these are private values, you'll need to ask one of the members for it.

```

- After migrating, you can run the server with `python3 ./manage.py runserver`. When running for the first time, you will have to configure `autoscheduler/autoscheduler/config/postgres-info.json` with your postgres username and password. This file will be automatically created if you run `python3 ./manage.py runserver`.
     - This starts a webserver that's listening on port 8000, so you can navigate to `localhost:8000/` and you should see the landing page
          - Note: you must have run `npm run dev` from below

- If `python3 ./manage.py` isn't working, try to use `python manage.py ...` or `py ./manage.py ...` or `./manage.py ...` in place of it.
    - See python aliases above

#### Scraping Course Info:

> The first time you run the server, you will need to scrape the course info from TAMU:
> Scraping command arguments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first time you run the server, you will need to scrape the course info from TAMU.

Scraping command arguments:
```

> - `python manage.py scrape_depts`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `python manage.py scrape_depts`
```

  - `-t [term]` or `--term [term]`
    - e.g. `scrape_depts -t 202031`
- `python manage.py scrape_courses`
  - `-t [term]` or `--term [term]`
    - e.g. `scrape_courses -t 202031`
  - `-y [year]` or `--year [year]`
    - e.g. `scrape_courses -y 2020`
    - Scrapes all semesters + locations for the given year
  - `-r` or `--recent`
    - e.g. `scrape_courses -r`

>       - Scrapes the most recent terms. E.g. if it's October 1st, will scrape Summer + Fall 2020 for all locations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - Scrapes the most recent terms. E.g. if it's October 1st 2020, it will scrape Summer + Fall 2020 for all locations
```

  - `-t`, `-y`, and `-r` are mutually exclusive
- `python manage.py scrape_grades`
  - `-y [year]` or `--year [year]`
    - e.g. `scrape_grades -y 2020`
  - `-c [college]` or `--college [college]`
    - e.g. `scrape_grades -c EN`
  - `-p [procs]` or `--procs [procs]`
    - e.g. `scrape_grades -p 5`

>     - `scrape_grades` uses mutli-processing, and this changes how many processes run at a time. Defaults to the number of cores your CPU has.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `scrape_grades` uses multi-processing, and this changes how many processes run at a time. Defaults to the number of cores your CPU has.
```

Password: (not necessary)
```

7) Ensure the database `dbautoscheduler` has been created:
Using psql: Type `\l` in the psql prompt and see if `dbautoscheduler` is in the list.
Using pgAdmin: Click the name of the server you created, and see if `dbautoscheduler` is in the tree menu.

8) Navigate to the frontend directory: `./autoscheduler/frontend/src/` and run `npm install`
    - This is for TypeScript compilation and testing.
    
9) Before making code changes, please go to the github project [wiki](https://github.com/aggie-coding-club/Rev-Registration/wiki) and follow the Project Setup and Install section.

## Running

Before running any commands, if you're not running in the virtual environment(you should see `(env)` somewhere in your current terminal line), run `source env/bin/activate` or `./env/Scripts/activate`.

**Server:**
- You will have to make and apply migrations before running the server (and whenever our models are changed). To generate the files that django uses to apply migrations, run `./manage.py makemigrations`, and to then apply these to the database, run `./manage.py migrate`.
    - `manage.py` can be found in the `./autoscheduler/` directory.

> - After migrating, you can run the server with `./manage.py runserver`. When running for the first time, you will have to configure `autoscheduler/autoscheduler/config/postgres-info.json` with your postgres username and password. This file will be automatically created if you run `./manage.py runserver`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- After migrating, you can run the server with `./manage.py runserver`. When running for the first time, you will have to configure `autoscheduler/autoscheduler/config/postgres-info.json` with your postgres username and password. This file will be automatically created if you run `./manage.py runserver`.
     - This starts a webserver that's listening on port 8000, so you can navigate to `localhost:8000/` and you should see the landing page
          - Note: you must have run `npm run dev` from below
```

Adds two lines about navigating to localhost:8000 (since this is really what lets you do it)

- If `./manage.py` isn't working, try to use `python manage.py ...` or `python3 manage.py ...` or `py manage.py ...` in place of it.
    - See python aliases above

- The first time you run the server, you will need to scrape the course info from TAMU
    - `python manage.py scrape_depts`
    - `python manage.py scrape_courses`

>     - `python manage.py scrape_grades`
>         - You can put a term afterwards if you just want to scrape a specific term for quick testing:
>             - `python manage.py scrape_courses 202011`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `python manage.py scrape_grades`
```
Remove this as I added documentation for the backend commands that'll be below this

Also just btw, it would have to be `python manage.py scrape_courses -t 202011`

Author: Wait you wanted to these lines entirely? *All the scrape commands?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Backend

Scraping command arguments:
- `python manage.py scrape_depts`.
  - `-t [term]` or `--term [term]`
    - e.g. `scrape_depts -t 202031`
- `python manage.py scrape_courses`
  - `-t [term]` or `--term [term]`
    - e.g. `scrape_courses -t 202031`
  - `-y [year]` or `--year [year]`
    - e.g. `scrape_courses -y 2020`
    - Scrapes all semesters + locations for the given year
  - `-r` or `--recent`
    - e.g. `scrape_courses -r`
      - Scrapes the most recent terms. E.g. if it's October 1st, will scrape Summer + Fall 2020 for all locations
  - `-t`, `-y`, and `-r` are mutually exclusive
- `python manage.py scrape_grades`
  - `-y [year]` or `--year [year]`
    - e.g. `scrape_grades -y 2020`
  - `-c [college]` or `--college [college]`
    - e.g. `scrape_grades -c EN`
  - `-p [procs]` or `--procs [procs]`
    - e.g. `scrape_grades -p 5`
    - `scrape_grades` uses mutli-processing, and this changes how many processes run at a time. Defaults to the number of cores your CPU has.
  - Note that all of `scrape_grades` arguments can be used at the same time
```

Per the comment on the line above this about removing the `python manage.py scrape_courses 202011` documentation, made me realize that we should probably document it, so figured we should add this

Reviewer: Actually on second thought this might not be the best place for it? Feel free to move it wherever you think it makes the most sense

**Frontend:**

> - Navigate to the frontend source directory: `cd ./autoscheduler/frontend/src` and run `npm run dev`
>     - This sets up a watch for file changes and compiles them
>     - ctrl-c to quit
> 
> **`localhost:8000`**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Navigate to the frontend source directory: `cd ./autoscheduler/frontend/src` and run `npm run dev`
    - This sets up a watch for file changes and compiles them
    - If you already have `python manage.py runserver` running, you can see the server at `localhost:8000/` and refresh after you change files and `npm run dev` re-compiles them.
    - ctrl-c to quit
```

- Open in web browser after doing the above steps.

> **Testing:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Testing
```
Since this is about frontend testing, this should be the like 4th level header (to make it a sub header to `### Frontend`)

- The frontend has automated test suites which can be run with:
    - `cd ./autoscheduler/frontend/src`
    - `npm run test`

>         - Can put filename after to test only one file: `npm run test testfile.test.tsx`
>             - No path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Can put filename after to test only one file: `npm run test testfile.test.tsx`
```
You actually can do the path (e.g. `npm run test tests/ui/SchedulingPage.test.tsx`) so this comment isn't necessary, but it is great to know cause I had no idea you could do that

Author: does that work? I got a bunch of errors about it not being able to find the test file when I did that

Author: I added a little text blurb about it in the last commit.
